make-isoimage.md, before:

# Bootable Linux ISO Build Process

This guide explains how to create a custom bootable Linux ISO image using Syslinux bootloader and a minimal initramfs.

## Prerequisites

Required packages on Ubuntu/Debian:
```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt install build-essential git curl tar
```

You'll need about 3GB of free disk space for the build process.

## Build Steps

### 1. Download Initial RAM Filesystem (initramfs)

The initramfs provides the minimal root filesystem needed during the boot process.

```shell
# Download and extract minimal initramfs for boot initialization
curl -sL https://landley.net/bin/mkroot/0.8.13/x86_64.tgz | \
  tar -xz -C ~ -f - --strip-components=1 x86_64/initramfs.cpio.gz
```

### 2. Install Syslinux Bootloader Components

Syslinux provides the bootloader infrastructure needed to create bootable media.

```shell
# Download and configure Syslinux bootloader elements
curl -sL https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/boot/syslinux/syslinux-6.03.tar.xz | \
  tar -xJf - \
    syslinux-6.03/bios/core/isolinux.bin \
    syslinux-6.03/bios/com32/elflink/ldlinux/ldlinux.c32 && \
  sudo mkdir -p /usr/lib/syslinux && \
  sudo mv \
    syslinux-6.03/bios/core/isolinux.bin \
    syslinux-6.03/bios/com32/elflink/ldlinux/ldlinux.c32 \
    /usr/lib/syslinux/ && \
  rm -rf syslinux-6.03
```

### 3. Build Bootable ISO Image

First, download the Linux kernel source code:

```shell
git clone --branch linux-6.17.y --depth 1 https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/stable/linux-stable.git
cd linux-stable
```

Configure the kernel with the smallest possible configuration:

```shell
make tinyconfig
```

This creates a minimal kernel configuration with the bare essentials needed to boot. It's perfect for creating a small ISO image, but may need additional features enabled depending on your hardware requirements.

Note: If you need to enable additional features after running tinyconfig, use:
```shell
make menuconfig    # Requires ncurses-dev package
```

Compile the Linux kernel and create the final ISO image using Make with the following configuration:

```shell
make isoimage \
  FDARGS="initrd=/initramfs.cpio.gz" \
  FDINITRD="../initramfs.cpio.gz" \
  ISOLINUX_BIN="/usr/lib/syslinux/isolinux.bin" \
  ARCH=x86_64 \
  CROSS_COMPILE=x86_64-linux-gnu- \
  -j 4
```

This command will:
1. Build the Linux kernel with the specified architecture and compiler
2. Package the kernel with the initramfs and bootloader into an ISO image

## Component Details

### Key Files
- `initramfs.cpio.gz`: Initial RAM filesystem for system initialization
- `isolinux.bin`: BIOS bootloader binary
- `ldlinux.c32`: Core Syslinux module
- `vmlinuz`: Compiled Linux kernel

### Build Parameters
- `FDARGS`: Kernel command line arguments
- `FDINITRD`: Path to initramfs
- `ISOLINUX_BIN`: Path to bootloader binary
- `ARCH`: Target architecture
- `CROSS_COMPILE`: Toolchain prefix
- `-j 4`: Number of parallel build jobs

Commit message:

Add note on location of generated ISO file after build completion

make-isoimage.md, after:

# Bootable Linux ISO Build Process

This guide explains how to create a custom bootable Linux ISO image using Syslinux bootloader and a minimal initramfs.

## Prerequisites

Required packages on Ubuntu/Debian:
```shell
sudo apt update
sudo apt install build-essential git curl tar
```

You'll need about 3GB of free disk space for the build process.

## Build Steps

### 1. Download Initial RAM Filesystem (initramfs)

The initramfs provides the minimal root filesystem needed during the boot process.

```shell
# Download and extract minimal initramfs for boot initialization
curl -sL https://landley.net/bin/mkroot/0.8.13/x86_64.tgz | \
  tar -xz -C ~ -f - --strip-components=1 x86_64/initramfs.cpio.gz
```

### 2. Install Syslinux Bootloader Components

Syslinux provides the bootloader infrastructure needed to create bootable media.

```shell
# Download and configure Syslinux bootloader elements
curl -sL https://www.kernel.org/pub/linux/utils/boot/syslinux/syslinux-6.03.tar.xz | \
  tar -xJf - \
    syslinux-6.03/bios/core/isolinux.bin \
    syslinux-6.03/bios/com32/elflink/ldlinux/ldlinux.c32 && \
  sudo mkdir -p /usr/lib/syslinux && \
  sudo mv \
    syslinux-6.03/bios/core/isolinux.bin \
    syslinux-6.03/bios/com32/elflink/ldlinux/ldlinux.c32 \
    /usr/lib/syslinux/ && \
  rm -rf syslinux-6.03
```

### 3. Build Bootable ISO Image

First, download the Linux kernel source code:

```shell
git clone --branch linux-6.17.y --depth 1 https://git.kernel.org/pub/scm/linux/kernel/git/stable/linux-stable.git
cd linux-stable
```

Configure the kernel with the smallest possible configuration:

```shell
make tinyconfig
```

This creates a minimal kernel configuration with the bare essentials needed to boot. It's perfect for creating a small ISO image, but may need additional features enabled depending on your hardware requirements.

Note: If you need to enable additional features after running tinyconfig, use:
```shell
make menuconfig    # Requires ncurses-dev package
```

Compile the Linux kernel and create the final ISO image using Make with the following configuration:

```shell
make isoimage \
  FDARGS="initrd=/initramfs.cpio.gz" \
  FDINITRD="../initramfs.cpio.gz" \
  ISOLINUX_BIN="/usr/lib/syslinux/isolinux.bin" \
  ARCH=x86_64 \
  CROSS_COMPILE=x86_64-linux-gnu- \
  -j 4
```

This command will:
1. Build the Linux kernel with the specified architecture and compiler
2. Package the kernel with the initramfs and bootloader into an ISO image

After the build completes, you can find the generated ISO file at `arch/x86/boot/image.iso`.

## Component Details

### Key Files
- `initramfs.cpio.gz`: Initial RAM filesystem for system initialization
- `isolinux.bin`: BIOS bootloader binary
- `ldlinux.c32`: Core Syslinux module
- `vmlinuz`: Compiled Linux kernel

### Build Parameters
- `FDARGS`: Kernel command line arguments
- `FDINITRD`: Path to initramfs
- `ISOLINUX_BIN`: Path to bootloader binary
- `ARCH`: Target architecture
- `CROSS_COMPILE`: Toolchain prefix
- `-j 4`: Number of parallel build jobs
